I am still in Antarctica, so today's guest video comes from Chase of ScienceC,
of all 150 pitches I received, he sent me the best.
He started with, "Hi Tom,
"I am dissolving two of my sister's teeth in soft drinks."
I have to confess something.
I love Mountain Dew.
I think my weather balloon video alone needed a few packs of 12.
Mountain Dew is not really known as the most healthy drink.
So today I show you how badly Mountain Dew is, with the help of a small experiment
for your teeth.
I have two choices of my sisters here.
I both washed them in a bottle of Mountain Dew,
and a Coca-Cola bottle for the next three weeks.
Let's see what happens!
These teeth have soaked in the soda during the last two weeks and five days.
Before we take them out and weigh them,
a bit of background information about this soft drink
The Mountain Dew here has a pH value of about 3.1
while the Coca-Cola has a pH value of 2.5.
That makes it six times more acidic than the Mountain Dew.
Let's take out the teeth and see how much their mass has changed.
I pour the Mountain Dew into this, and take out the tooth ...
I got the tooth out, and as you can see, it looks much yellower,
certainly the root.
Wow, wow, wow ...
This tooth does not look good at all.
He is completely black around the crown,
and he just looks unappetizing and dirty.
I clean it with a little water.
Now that the teeth are dry, if you look closely,
then you can see a lot of the glaze that was there
- the white stuff - is away from where it used to be.
And at the Coca-Cola tooth you can not see much,
because it is so blotchy.
Now that the teeth are dry enough, we weigh them.
The Coca-Cola tooth weighs .80 g,
which means that he is .06 g lighter than before.
If you look at the Mountain Dew tooth, we can see that it weighs .81 g.
That means that it is 13 hundredths of a gram lighter than before.
Well, if we take into account the initial mass of the teeth
we can see that the Mountain Dew tooth lost 14% of its mass,
while the Coca-Cola tooth has only lost 7% mass.
Half of what the Mountain Dew lost.
Because Coca-Cola is six times more acidic than Mountain Dew,
would you expect it to rot faster than Mountain Dew.
That is not the case for two reasons:
And the first factor is the titratable acidity.
pH is a measure of the height of the acidity.
That means that the Coca-Cola is more acidic than Mountain Dew.
But Mountain Dew has a higher titratable acidity than Coca-Cola.
That means it's more biting than Coca-Cola.
That means it takes longer for the saliva in your mouth to dilute the acid.
than with most cola drinks.
on top of that
it is also the kind of acid that makes the difference.
Mountain Dew, like most non-cola drinks,
added citric acid.
And citric acid is an organic acid,
which means that the calcium in your teeth breaks down faster
than the non-organic acids, such as the phosphoric acid in most cola drinks.
This ultimately means that Mountain Dew is worse for your teeth than Coca-Cola,
also if Coca-Cola is much more acidic,
and that is something you may not have known.
Thank you, Tom.
Thank you, Chase!
I thought I had left that slogan behind.
Subscribe to his channel, he has some great videos coming up,
left on the screen or in the description now.
And let's be honest,
he has my job in 5 or 10 years, you are early.
Next time: we have a very well-known part of China.